------------------Commands Of Linux--------------------

head-

used to retrieve the first 10 lines of a file


tail-

used to retreive the last 10 lines of the file

/We can also use -(number of lines) with head and tail/

less-

used to see te contents of a file one screen at a time.

-------PROCESS MANAGEMENT------
Kernel - Heart of OS. Manages the software and hardware.

Daemon process-
A daemon process is a computer program that runs in the background of a multitasking operating system, performing tasks without user intervention.

Critical Process-
In Linux, a "critical process" refers to a process that is essential for the proper functioning of the system and needs to be running smoothly at all times, meaning if it fails, the system could experience significant disruptions or become unusable; essentially, it's a process that needs priority access to system resources to ensure reliable operation. 

User Process-
Processes runned via user.

Commands-

top-
used to running processes along with their properties.

ni-
niceness index, shows the priority.(range -20 to 19).

nice -(priority)
sets the priority for the first time

renice -
used to change the priority of the process.

ps-
(process status) tells the running task on current terminal

kill-
sends signals to end a particular process. signals define the way how the process is to be killed.

sigkill-
forcefull kill

sigkill-
correct way to kill

sudo apt update-
to update the Advance Package Manager

sudo apt install (pkgname)
to install a particular package

remove (package)
removes the particular package without deleting the configuration file

purge (package)
to completely remove the package

sudo apt depends (package)
list the dependencies of the package

sudo apt satisfy (package)
resolves the dependencies

3 Feb 25
File Permissions

umask values-
subtract the default value(last 3) from 666 to get the file perm
subtract the default value(last 3) from 777 to get the directory perm

permissions in octal-
0-no perm
1- x
2-w
3- w+x
4- r
5- r+x
6- r+w
7- r+w+x

Default umask value 0002



